.\" $Id: copyrite.man,v 5.0 1992/01/07 13:09:42 ste_cm Rel $
.de EX
.RS
.nf
.PP
..
.de EE
.fi
.RE
..
.TH COPYRITE 1
.hy 0
.
.SH NAME
.PP
\fBcopyrite\fR \- \fIcopyright utility
.
.SH USAGE
.PP
\fBcopyrite \fI[options] files...
.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\fBCopyrite\fR selectively comments source-files to prepend a copyright
notice.
.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
\fBCopyrite\fR reads each file, and checks to ensure that they
.RS
.TP
.B \-
are nonbinary,
.TP
.B \-
contain either an SCCS or RCS identifier, and
.TP
.B \-
contain no prior copyright notice.
.RE
.
.PP
The restriction to files containing SCCS or RCS identifiers is made to
avoid modifying files that are used as references for test cases.
You may override this restriction with the "\fB\-f\fR" option.
\fBCopyrite\fR assumes SCCS identifiers are constructed with "%W" or "%A"
(and so yield the string "@(#)", followed by the filename).
RCS identifiers "Id" or "Header" yield the filename as well.
By looking for both the form of the identifier as well as matching the
filename, \fBcopyrite\fR can reduce the change of accidentally changing
a file which is derived from another (e.g., via editing).
.
.PP
Prior copyright notices are recognized by searching (ignoring case)
for the word "copyright",
followed by an (optionally comma-separated list of) years.
.
.PP
If no conflict is found, \fBcopyrite\fR then attempts to determine the
type of file by examining its name and contents.
If successful, it completes the change by renaming its working file
onto the input file.
.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-c
directs \fBcopyrite\fR to insert the string "(c)" after the word "Copyright"
in the generated notice.
Use of this option is not necessary,
and may indeed result in a defective (non-statutory) notice;
however it is provided for cultural reasons.
.TP
.BI \-e " FILE"
redirects the standard error to the specified file.
.TP
.B \-f
forces \fBcopyrite\fR to markup files which have no RCS or SCCS identifier.
.TP
.B \-F
forces \fBcopyrite\fR to modify files which have notices owned by other
organizations.
.TP
.BI \-l " LANG"
specify the default language for unknown cases (none)
.TP
.B \-L
directs \fBcopyrite\fR to operate on symbolic links
that resolve to files or directories.
Normally these are ignored.
.TP
.BI \-m " FILE"
specifies a file containing text for owner and disclaimer.
\fBCopyrite\fR interprets the first line of the file as the owner.
The remainder of the file is formatted into a paragraph as the disclaimer.
.TP
.BI \-o " FILE"
redirects the standard output to the specified file.
.TP
.B \-n
shows the effect of changing the specified files without actually
doing the change.
\fBCopyrite\fR writes the changes to a temporary file and computes
the differences.
.TP
.B \-q
(quiet) suppress informational messages
.TP
.B \-r
removes an existing notice
(whose owner matches that specified, e.g., by the "\fB\-m\fR" option).
.TP
.B \-R
recur into directories
.TP
.B \-s
strips comments which appear starting at the point in the input files
at which \fBcopyrite\fR would insert a notice.
.TP
.B \-T
touches the changed files with the current date.
If you do not use this option, \fBcopyrite\fR derives the
year from the last modification-date of the original file.
.TP
.B \-v
(verbose)
.TP
.BI \-w " NUMBER"
sets the width of the notice-comment
The default width is 80 columns.
.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.PP
\fBCopyrite\fR runs in either a UNIX or VAX/VMS environment.
.
.SH FILES
.PP
\fBCopyrite\fR consists of a single binary file
(on UNIX, "\fBcopyrite\fR", on VAX/VMS, "\fBcopyrite.exe\fR").
.
.SH ANTICIPATED CHANGES
.PP
Make this able to operate on lists of years.
.
.SH AUTHOR
.PP
Thomas Dickey (Software Productivity Consortium).
